=head1 NAME

PAR::FAQ - Frequently Asked Questions about PAR

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This is the Frequently Asked Questions list for the Perl Archive Toolkit.
You can edit this document at L<http://par.perl.org/?FAQ> online.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 How do I make a F<.par> file for my CPAN module along with the F<.tar.gz> file?

Do this in the module directory:

    % make clean
    % parl -p

You may also digitally sign the generated F<.par> file:

    % parl -s

B<PAR::Dist> expects to find your F<MANIFEST> in the current directory, and
uses B<Module::Signature> to (optionally) sign the newly generated PAR.

The F<.par> file can be uploaded to CPAN along with your module's F<.tar.gz> file.
Users of your module can then install from CPAN with a single command:

    % parl -i cpan://PAUSEID/DISTNAME-0.01

Where C<PAUSEID> is your PAUSE ID, and C<DISTNAME> is your module's distribution
name (eg. C<Acme-FooBar>).

=head2 If I try to compile my wxGlade generated script, it doesn't run. What's wrong?

Comment out the line that starts with C<unless (caller)>, and compile it again.
Note that this is considered a bug; clearing the caller stack is a development
in progress.

=head2 I get a C<link error: /usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lperl> during the C<make> step of the installation on Debian. What's wrong?

You need to install the B<libperl-dev> package.

Alternatively, create a symbolic link from F<libperl.so.5.6.1> to
F<libperl.so> in F</usr/lib>:

    % cd /usr/lib; ln -s libperl.so.5.6.1 libperl.so

and re-run the C<make> step of the installation.

=head2 I specify a F<.ico> file with C<--icon> for Win32, but the icon is still the black and white camel.  What's wrong?

Unlike Perl2EXE, which can use a standard 16-color bitmap as an application
icon, PAR requires a true Windows icon file.  Download a trial version of
Microangelo (L<http://www.microangelo.us/>) and use that to create your F<.ico>
file.

The latest Netpbm tools at L<http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/> has
B<ppmtowinicon>, which can tack a pbm and convert it to a windows icon.  It is
open source and has win32 ports.

=head2 I added a directory to my PAR file using C<zip -r> or winzip, and then generated an executable from this PAR file, and the executable failed to run (IO error: reading header signature :..). What's wrong?

As pointed out by Alan Stewart, zip adds a directory entry for the new
directory, and it causes the PAR executable to fail. 

Just use this :

    zip -r -D hello.par my_dir/ 

or the B<Archive::Zip::addTree> as follows :

    $zip->addTree( $root, $dest, sub { -f } )

PAR version 0.81 and above supports adding whole directories with C<pp -A>,
so you do not normally need to add directories this way.

=head2 On what platforms can I run PAR?  On what platforms will the resulting executable run?

Win32 (with VC++ or MinGW), FreeBSD, NetBSD, Linux, MacOSX, Cygwin, AIX,
Solaris, HP-UX, Tru64.

The resulting executable will run on any platforms that supports the binary
format of the generating platform.

=head2 How do I extract my script out of packed executable?

In other words, "I did a C<pp foo.pl> and I lost F<foo.pl>, how do I get it
back?".

The answer is to just use unzip/winzip/winrar/whatever to decompress the
executable, treating it like a normal Zip file.  You may need to rename the
executable into a F<.zip> extension first.

=head2 Can PAR completly hide my source code?

Not completely, but possible to a degree.  PAR supports an input filter
mechanism via C<pp -f> and C<pp -F> (see L<PAR::Filter>), which can be used
to implement source obfuscators (or even product activation schemes).

But if you are looking for 100% bulletproof way of hiding source code, it is
not possible with any language.  Learning Perl, 3rd Edition has this answer to
offer (quoted with permission from Randal Schwartz):

    If you're wishing for an opaque binary, though, we have to tell
    you that they don't exist. If someone can install and run your
    program, they can turn it back into source code. Granted, this
    won't necessarily be the same source that you started with, but
    it will be some kind of source code. The real way to keep your
    secret algorithm a secret is, alas, to apply the proper number
    of attorneys; they can write a license that says "you can do
    this with the code, but you can't do that. And if you break our
    rules, we've got the proper number of attorneys to ensure that
    you'll regret it."

=head2 Perl Tk tips

On Microsoft Windows, start your script with

    use strict;
    use Encode::Unicode;
    use Tk;

Some widgets use xbm bitmaps which don't get picked up by PAR.  The error is:

    couldn't read bitmap file "": No such file or directory at Tk/Widget.pm line 203
    error reading bitmap file "" at Tk/Widget.pm line 205.

Fix is to find the missing xbm files (C<perl -V> tells you where to start
looking), copy them to the script directory, and add them to the executable:

    pp -a cbxarrow.xbm -a arrowdownwin.xbm -o test test.pl

=head2 Under Win32, a pp packed executable has trouble executing other perl scripts or pp packed executable.

Note that this problem should only happen if the perl version of both programs
are binary-incompatible.

When running on a Win32 system, if a perl script is packed with pp and invokes
another Perl script or pp packed executable, either with C<system()> or backticks,
the invoked program runs with the copy of F<perl5x.dll> already loaded into
memory.

If the calling executable was packed with C<pp -d>, the F<perl5x.dll> is the one
from the installed perl bin directory.  Otherwise, it is the one packed with the
executable.

The F<perl5x.dll> from the bin dir knows the C<@INC> paths for the installed
libraries; the one in the executable does not. Because of this, a program
packed without C<-d> calling a program with packed with C<-d> or calling
F<perl.exe> to run a plain Perl script may fail.  This is a Win32 limitation.

=head2 How do I make a F<.exe> that runs with no console window under Windows?

Use the C<pp --gui> option, like this:

    % pp --gui -o file.exe file.pl

=head2 How do I change the Icon of the generated F<.exe> file under Windows?

Use the C<pp --icon> option, like this:

    % pp --icon "c:\path\to\MyIcon.ico" -o file.exe file.pl

=head2 On Windows XP, C<pp> crashes saying that C<par.exe has encountered a problem>

This bug has been be fixed.  The following answer applies to PAR 0.76 and earlier:

You may be able to escape this problem by setting some executables to Windows
95 compatibility mode.  Specifically, find F<parl.exe> (probably in
F<C:\perl\5.8.0\bin>) using Windows Explorer, and right-click on it and choose
C<Properties>.  Choose the "Compatibility" tab and tick the box for C<Run this
program with compatibility mode for> and check that the dropdown shows C<Windows
95>.  Then click OK.

Now you can hopefully run pp as normal to generate an EXE.  Before you can run
the generated EXE, you'll need to set its compatibility mode too, in the same
way as you did for F<parl.exe>.

=head2 Problem with B<Win32::Perms> and F<Perms.DLL>

This bug has been be fixed.  The following answer applies to PAR 0.79 and earlier:

With a script F<my.pl> using B<Win32::Perms>, running C<pp -o my.exe my.pl> may
produce this:

    Can't locate loadable object for module Win32::Perms in @INC (@INC 
    contains: CODE(0xb97eec) CODE(0xc8a99c) .) at ../blib/lib/PAR/Heavy.pm 
    line 78

In fact the dll is F<Perms.DLL> wit DLL in capital letters. That's the problem.
The bootstrap function of PAR in the Dynaloader module fails 
looking for F<Perms.dll> in the table of dlls which contains only F<Perms.DLL>.

And so the solution is just rename F<Perms.DLL> to F<Perms.dll> and do
C<pp -o my.exe my.pl> again... and everything goes right!

=head2 Problems with chdir() and relative @INC paths

If a perl program's C<@INC> list contains relative paths and that
program calls chdir before loading a module via C<require>, its
behavior can be different from a PAR-packed executable based on that
program.  This is because C<pp> typically gleans the module loads
without executing code, so it doesn't see the C<chdir>.  Note that
this primarily affects developers who routinely use C<-Mblib> or C<-I
inc> etc.

Here's a simple workaround to turn your relative C<@INC> paths into
absolute paths before C<chdir>.

    require File::Spec;
    for (@INC) {
        if (! ref $_ && -d $_ && !File::Spec->file_name_is_absolute($_)) {
            $_ = File::Spec->rel2abs($_);
        }
    }

Source: L<http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.par/2281>


=head2 My PAR executable needs some dynamic libraries

If you use a Perl module that is tied to a dynamic library (that is,
a C<.dll>, C<.so> or C<.dylib>) via XS then PAR will not
automatically detect and include that dependency.  This omission can cause
problems when the PAR package is executed on a machine that lacks the
library.  The symptom can look something like this error message:

  Can't load '/tmp/par-dave/cache-f5cc9fa27d926a299b2883dcef7dbc7aed777aff/2cffd144.bundle'
  for module Image::Imlib2:
  dlopen(/tmp/par-dave/cache-f5cc9fa27d926a299b2883dcef7dbc7aed777aff/2cffd144.bundle, 1):
  Library not loaded: /sw/lib/libImlib2.1.dylib

The key is the last line.  This can be solved by adding a C<-l> flag to C<pp> like so:

  % pp -l /sw/lib/libImlib2.1.dylib -o foo foo.pl

However, this will go badly if that path is actually a symlink,
because PAR mistakenly includes the wrong filename.  On my computer I
see that this is the case:

  % ls -l /sw/lib/libImlib2*
  -rwxr-xr-x    1 root     admin      797472 Feb 19 14:49 /sw/lib/libImlib2.1.2.1.dylib
  lrwxr-xr-x    1 root     admin          21 Feb 27 08:34 /sw/lib/libImlib2.1.dylib -> libImlib2.1.2.1.dylib
  -rw-r--r--    1 root     admin      916400 Feb 19 14:49 /sw/lib/libImlib2.a
  lrwxr-xr-x    1 root     admin          21 Feb 27 08:34 /sw/lib/libImlib2.dylib -> libImlib2.1.2.1.dylib
  -rwxr-xr-x    1 root     admin         941 Feb 19 14:49 /sw/lib/libImlib2.la

A workaround is to make a copy of the library before running C<pp>.
This resolves the symlink and creates a real file that C<pp> can
injest:

  % cp /sw/lib/libImlib2.1.dylib .
  % pp -l libImlib2.1.dylib -o foo foo.pl

[Note: Imlib2 posed particular problems due to hard-coded paths.
Email cdolan at cpan.org for some nasty hacks if you need to bundle
Imlib2]

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PAR>, L<PAR::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHORS

Audrey Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>

L<http://par.perl.org/> is the official PAR website.  You can write
to the mailing list at E<lt>par@perl.orgE<gt>, or send an empty mail to
E<lt>par-subscribe@perl.orgE<gt> to participate in the discussion.

Please submit bug reports to E<lt>bug-par@rt.cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 by Audrey Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>.

This document is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=cut
